hey guys my name is Dora and I'm the
director of paid social at a fully
remote marketing agency today I wanted
to share with you guys the easiest way
to upload a product catalog
to Facebook Ads manager and look I hate
doing this kind of stuff I hate
installing the pixel I hate testing
event tracking you know I really feel
like I'm more well-versed in the
creative end in things and when it gets
a little bit more technical like I don't
feel comfortable with this kind of stuff
so when I discovered this super easy way
to do this I wanted to share with you
guys so that you could take advantage of
one of Facebook's most powerful tools
when it comes to advertising online and
the reason why you guys should do this
is because the product catalog allows
you to actually re target customers with
products that they've already indicated
interest in so on my daraa does
marketing fake Shopify store yeah please
don't go here you can see I have a
featured collection filled with some
products of dog costumes and clothing so
what a product catalog would actually
allow us to do is say a customer clicked
on this the soho sweatshirt and added to
cart the next time that they went to
facebook or instagram you could actually
dynamically retarget those people so
that they see this exact product in
their social media feeds which is really
really powerful in this method I'm gonna
share with you guys this is exactly what
I do at the agency and also with my
personal clients so let's dive in okay
so we're gonna be starting at your
Shopify homepage and from here we're
gonna go to apps so we will be
downloading an app to do the heavy
lifting on installing this product
catalog so we're going to visit the
Shopify app store
and we'll be downloading an app called
flex if I suite right here so flex if I
is free for up to your first 1000
products there is a premium version
which allows you to have better control
over the way that your image is show up
in Facebook or Instagram but just
starting off just install the free
version I definitely use it for the free
version for a number of clients so it's
totally fine
so when you first download it you'll see
this screen you will not be seeing this
little notice it's just because I
deleted it so that I could show you the
exact process for getting to for
downloading your product catalog so if
you click on apps again you can see that
you have this flex pay Facebook product
feed and this is where your apps gonna
live so go ahead and click on that and
again you won't see this little notice
but what you're gonna do is you're going
to add the collection so yes you are
gonna have to have a collection already
made in Shopify and for this purpose you
want to create one with all of your
products so that no matter which product
one of your customers lands on you can
be able to retarget them so we have the
all products collection selected you
want to make sure to click on this use
SEO titles and description so that
google has an easier time finding you
and some of these are just premium
upgrades so for this purpose you're not
gonna have to worry about them you're
also going to be able to see what your
images are going to look like both in
facebook for the corrupt option and for
the fill option as you can see all those
all tend to look the same and if they do
that's a good indication
that you don't need to upgrade unless
you have more than a thousand products
this right here is a feed generation
time so with Flex off' i it's actually
going to look at your Shopify account
for you at a specific time every day to
update those products as long as the
products that you're adding to your
Shopify site is in that catalog so I
like to do this in the middle of the
night like 4 a.m. these are other
premium features and then last easy step
is to save your feed and now so this is
actually where your feed lives which is
super cool so we want to go ahead and
copy that and then we're going to head
on over to Facebook ads manager so once
you're here what you're going to do is
you're going to go ahead and click on
catalog manager you're gonna go ahead
and click on data sources add products
and here we're gonna be choosing a bulk
upload and because we do not want to add
all of our products one by one and we're
not going to be using the pixel for this
and when you see here that we actually
have another few options to choose from
and here we're gonna select scheduled
feed and enter URL so here is where
we'll be entering the URL from our flex
if I app so we'll go ahead and enter it
there click Next and now you're gonna be
planning your update to so really we
only want to do this once a day and I
would recommend to do this again in the
middle of the night
kind of like when when flex off' i is
going to be uploading from Shopify so
the way that it's working is that flex
if I is syncing
to the product catalog and then flex if
I it is then sinking to ads manager so
let us do okay that's fine and then here
we want to name the data source so you
can go ahead and just keep the the
regular name and you want to select your
currency for this purposes it's the USD
and then you're gonna hit upload so
depending on how many products you're
uploading this first time around
shouldn't really take super long and
there we go very quick and it says that
I have eight products in the data feed
and that's exactly how many products I
have on my Shopify so that's perfect and
now you're ready to create your first ad
so let's go ahead and see what that
looks like actually so now you've
already you know you've done all the
heavy lifting your product catalog is
installed but I want to show you what
you can do with that so so when you're
in ads manager we're going to go ahead
and create a campaign this is going to
be considered catalog sales and here
you're going to see this catalog portion
pop-up and you can see that I have many
catalogs even two for this purpose sorry
guys but just make sure that you can see
your products come in here so go ahead
and click on that one let's not go wild
let's do a daily budget of five just for
this purpose
I'm not going to do any of the targeting
really what I want to do is I just want
to show you guys what your ads will look
like
you